README.md, before:

# click-man

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/timofurrer/click-man.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/timofurrer/click-man) [![PyPI Package version](https://badge.fury.io/py/click-man.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/click-man)

Create **man pages** for [click](https://github.com/pallets/click) application as easy as this:

```bash
python3 setup.py --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages
```

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/timofurrer/click-man/master/docs/asciicast.gif)

## What it does

*click-man* will generate one man page per command from your click CLI application specified in `console_scripts` in your `setup.py`.

## Installation

```bash
pip3 install click-man
```

**click-man** is also available for Python 2:

```bash
pip install click-man
```

## Usage Recipes

The following sections describe different usage example for *click-man*.

### Use with setuptools

**click-man** provides a sane setuptools command extension which can be used like the following:

```bash
python3 setup.py --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages
```

or specify the man pages target directory:

```bash
python3 setup.py --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages --target path/to/man/pages
```

### Debian packages

*Coming soon ...*

### Standalone

*Coming soon ...*

Commit message:

Inform about setuptools/pip drawbacks in README

README.md, after:

# click-man

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/timofurrer/click-man.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/timofurrer/click-man) [![PyPI Package version](https://badge.fury.io/py/click-man.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/click-man)

Create **man pages** for [click](https://github.com/pallets/click) application as easy as this:

```bash
python3 setup.py --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages
```

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/timofurrer/click-man/master/docs/asciicast.gif)

## What it does

*click-man* will generate one man page per command from your click CLI application specified in `console_scripts` in your `setup.py`.

## Installation

```bash
pip3 install click-man
```

**click-man** is also available for Python 2:

```bash
pip install click-man
```

## Usage Recipes

The following sections describe different usage example for *click-man*.

### Use with setuptools

**click-man** provides a sane setuptools command extension which can be used like the following:

```bash
python3 setup.py --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages
```

or specify the man pages target directory:

```bash
python3 setup.py --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages --target path/to/man/pages
```

### Automatic man page installed with setuptools and pip

This approach of installing man pages is problematic for various reasons:

#### (1) Man pages are a UNIX thing

Python in general and with that pip and setuptools are aimed to be platform independent.
Man pages are **not**: they are a UNIX thing which means setuptools does not provide a sane
solution to generate and install man pages.
We should consider using automatic man page installation only with vendor specific packaging, e.g. for `*.deb` or `*.rpm` packages.

#### (2) We want to generate man pages on the fly

First, we do not want to commit man pages to our source control.
We want to generate them on the fly. Either
during build or installation time.

With setuptools and pip we face two problems:

1. If we generate and install them during installation of the package pip does not know about the man pages and thus cannot uninstall it.
2. If we generate them in our build process and add them to your distribution we do not have a way to prevent installation to */usr/share/man* for non-UNIX-like Operating Systems.

### Debian packages

*Coming soon ...*

### Standalone

*Coming soon ...*
